Command prefix is C-b by default.

Key bindings:
    d detach
    c create new window
    n next window
    p previous window
    l last (next to last selected) window
    ? list current key bindings
    0-9 select window

There is one default server process per user which puts its socket in
/tmp/tmux-UID. It is created the first time tmux is run and subsequent
invocations will connect to the same server. The server holds multiple
sessions.

Syntax is: tmux [-v] [-S path] [-s session] command [flags]

    -v Create logfiles, verbosity increases with more -v
    -S Set different server socket path
    -s Specify session name for command, if appropriate.

If a session name is not given, the current session is assumed if a command
is run from inside tmux and the TMUX environment variable is available,
otherwise if only one exists, it is used or if multiple exist, an error is
generated.

Commands:
    (Commands can be shortened, as long as they are unambiguous)

    new-session [-d] [-s session name] [-n window name] [command]
        Create new session. Attaches to new session unless -d is given. The
	window name and command are the same as for new-window below.

    attach-session [-d]
        Attach to session. Detaches other clients if -d is given.

    list-sessions
        List sessions (can be shortened to ls).

    list-windows
        List windows (can be shortened to lsw).

    new-window [-d] [-n window name] [command]
	Create a new window. If -d is given, the window is created in the
	background (it doesn't become the current window). The window name
	and the command to run in the window may also be specified.

    rename-window [-i window index] new name
        Rename window.

    bind-key key command
	Bind a key to a command (use ^A for ctrl-A), commands are as listed
        above.

    list-keys
	List current key bindings.

    unbind-key key
	Unbind a key from a command.

    set-option prefix key
	Set command prefix (meta) key.

XXX set-option status,status-fg,status-bg

Sessions are destroyed when no windows remain attached to them.

--- XXX cut here XXX above this line is reformatted into man page XXX ----------

Welcome to tmux!

tmux is a "terminal multiplexer," it enables a number of terminals (or windows)
to be accessed and controlled from a single terminal. tmux is intended to be a
simple, modern, BSD-licensed alternative to programs such as GNU screen.

This 0.1 release should be considered a beta release. It runs only on OpenBSD,
has many missing features and is expected to have a good number of bugs.

tmux consists of a server part and multiple clients. The server is created
when required and runs continuously unless killed by the user. Clients access
the server through a socket in /tmp. Multiple sessions may be created on a
single server and attached to a number of clients. Each session may then
have a number of windows. Commands are available to create, rename and destroy
windows and sessions; to attach and detach sessions from client terminals;
to set configuration options; and to bind and unbind command keys (invoked
preceded by a prefix key, by default ctrl-b). Please see the tmux(1) man page
for further information.

The following is a summary of major features implemented in this version:

- Basic multiplexing, window switching, attaching and detaching.
- Window listing and renaming.
- Key binding.
- Handling of client terminal resize.
- Terminal emulation sufficient to handle most curses applications. Without
  known issues are: emacs, irssi, mutt, ncmpc (resize problems are present in
  both tmux and screen), vim and various tools and games in OpenBSD base.
- A optional status line (enabled by default).

And major missing features:

- Support for VT100 line drawing characters (they will appear  as jklmx, etc).
- Status line customisation, beyond presence and colour.
- Copy and paste.
- Scrollback.
- Mouse support.

A more extensive, but rough, todo list is included in the TODO file.

tmux also depends on several features of the client terminal (TERM), if these
are missing it may not behave correctly. It is possible to emulate some of
these but tmux does not do this at present. Known working are TERM=screen (tmux
in screen), xterm, xterm-color and rxvt.

For debugging, running tmux with -v or -vv will generate server and client log
files in the current directory.

Bug reports, feature suggestions and especially code contributions (or offers
to work on code) are most welcome. Please email:

	nicm@users.sf.net

Or contact me during UK daytime hours (0900 to 1200 UTC or so) as "NicM" on
freenode or efnet IRC. I sometimes ignore private msgs from people I don't
know, so please mention tmux initially (rather than just saying "hi" ;-).

-- Nicholas Marriott <nicm@users.sf.net>
$Id: NOTES,v 1.18 2007-10-12 17:32:20 nicm Exp $
